# A Survey of Linear Prediction Methods and their Application in Digital Signal Processing


Digital signal processing has significant utility in forecasting and time-series analysis. This project will explore and survey popular linear prediction methods in digital signal processing and then apply these methods to a real-world data set. Linear prediction using filters has a broad application across many fields, particularly in the field of communication. We will focus on the design of filters to perform signal estimation, including the design of optimum filters for linear prediction. The optimum criterion arises from the minimization of the mean square error between the desired filter output and actual filter output.
Additionally, we will investigate the relevant algorithms necessary to determine optimum filters. The methods we will explore may include but are not limited to the characteristics of random processes and correlation functions, forward and backward linear prediction, the Levinson-Durbin algorithm, the Schur algorithm, and general properties of linear prediction-error filters.
In conjunction with the design of prediction filters, we will also learn how to evaluate the performance of these filters. After exploring the filter design process for linear prediction, we will apply these methods to a real-time-series data set. This data set could be either weather or economic data sourced from kaggle.com or the University of California Irvine machine learning repository. Lastly, we will evaluate the utility of optimum filters for linear prediction in the context of our data. In applying these methods to real-word-data, we can understand the limitations of filters for linear prediction and the computational trade-offs of using the Levinson-Durbin algorithm versus the Schur algorithm.
